sinatra/README.md, before:

# Ruby Web App Example (Sinatra)

This is a basic web application that will show you how to create, load, edit,
and delete accounts. We've used Sinatra as the platform for building this sample
application - so getting up and running is a snap!

## Installation

These installation steps assume you've already installed RubyGems. If you've
not yet installed RubyGems, go [here][rubygems-installation-docs].

You'll need the Bundler gem in order to install dependencies listed in your
project's Gemfile. To install Bundler:

```
$ gem install bundler
```

Then, install dependencies using Bundler:

```
$ bundle install
```

## Quickstart Guide

1.  If you have not already done so, register as a developer on
    [Stormpath][stormpath] and set up your API credentials and resources:

    1.  Create a [Stormpath][stormpath] developer account and [create your API Keys][create-api-keys]
        downloading the <code>apiKey.properties</code> file into a <code>.stormpath</code>
        folder under your local home directory.

    1.  Through the [Stormpath Admin UI][stormpath-admin-login], create yourself
        an [Application Resource][concepts] and a [Directory Resource][concepts].
        Edit the newly-created Application Resource and add this Directory
        Resource as a [Login Source][concepts]. This will allow users associated
        with that Directory Resource to authenticate and have access to that
        Application Resource.

    1.  Take note of the _REST URL_ of the Application you just created. Your
        web application will communicate with the Stormpath API in the context
        of this one Application Resource (operations such as: user-creation,
        authentication, etc.)

1.  Set ENV variables as follows (perhaps in ~/.bashrc):

    ```
    export STORMPATH_RUBY_SAMPLE_APPLICATION_URL=REST_URL_OF_APPLICATION_HERE
    export STORMPATH_RUBY_SAMPLE_API_KEY_FILE_LOCATION=PATH_TO_AFOREMENTIONED_APIKEY_PROPERTIES_FILE
    ```

    There are other ways to pass API information to the SDK client; see the
    [Stormpath SDK documentation][stormpath-sdk] for more info.

1.  Run the application with Rack (installed by Bundler):

    ```
    $ rackup config.ru
    ```

    You should see output resembling the following:

    ```
    [2013-05-03 11:38:19] INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
    [2013-05-03 11:38:19] INFO  ruby 2.0.0 (2013-02-24) [x86_64-darwin12.2.1]
    [2013-05-03 11:38:19] INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=9304 port=9292
    ```

1.  Visit the now-running site in your browser at http://0.0.0.0:9292

## Common Use Cases

### User Creation

This tutorial assumes you've not yet created any accounts in the Stormpath
directory mentioned in the Quickstart Guide.

To create your first account:

1.  Fire up the demo application, as explained in the Quickstart Guide

1.  Open http://0.0.0.0:9292 in your web browser

1.  Click the "Don't have an account?" link

1.  Complete the form and click the "Save" button

Congratulations! Your first account has been created. Assuming all has gone well,
you should be able to log in to the sample application using its email and
password.

If you're interested in the log in/out implementation, check out
routes/session.rb. In that file you'll find a route whose handler shows the
login view (GET "/session/new") and a route whose handler forwards your username
and password off to Stormpath for authentication (POST "/session").

### Listing Accounts

After creating an account ("User Creation") and logging in, you will be
presented with a list of all the accounts created to-date. These accounts have
been obtained from the Stormpath application and stored as settings of your
Sinatra app, like so:

```ruby
class SampleApp < Sinatra::Base

  ...

  set :client, Stormpath::Client.new({ :api_key_file_location => ENV['STORMPATH_RUBY_SAMPLE_API_KEY_FILE_LOCATION'] })
  set :application, settings.client.applications.get(ENV['STORMPATH_RUBY_SAMPLE_APPLICATION_URL'])

  ...

end
```

### Accessing the Stormpath Client and Application

When the Sinatra sample application starts up, a request is made to the
Stormpath API in order to load your application. The resulting
Stormpath Resource objects are accessible through the "settings" hash on your
Sinatra application, like so:

```ruby
# in routes/accounts.rb

module Sinatra
  module SampleApp
    module Routing
      module Accounts

        def self.registered(app)

          app.get '/sample_route' do

            ...

            settings.client # an instance of a Stormpath Client
            settings.application # an instance of the Stormpath Application

            ...

          end
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Testing Specific Configurations

### Post-Create Account Validation

It is possible to configure a Stormpath directory in such a way that when accounts
are provisioned to it that they must be verified (by clicking a link) via email
before logging in. The verification link in the email will by default point to
the Stormpath server - but can be configured to point to your local server. This
is useful if you wish to prevent the account from having to go to the Stormpath
site after registration.

To enable post-creation verififation for a directory:

1.  Head to the [Stormpath Admin UI][stormpath-admin-login], log in, and click
    "Directories."

1.  From there, click the directory whose REST URL you have used to configure
    your application (see Quickstart Guide):

1.  Click "Workflows" and then "Show" link next to "Account Registration and
    Verification".

1.  Click the box next to "Enable Registration and Verification
    Workflow."

1.  Finally, click the box next to "Require newly registered accounts to verify
    their email address."

Now account-creation will prompt an email to be sent to the email address attached
to that account. You will not be able to log in with that account until they've
clicked the verification link in the email-body.

If you wish for that email link to point to your local server - which will then
use the Stormpath SDK to verify the account - modify "Account Verification Base
URL" to "http://0.0.0.0:9292/account_verifications".

### Local Password Reset Token Validation

It is possible to configure a Stormpath directory in such a way that when accounts
reset their password that the email they receive points to a token-verification
URL on your local server. If you wish to configure the directory to point to
your local server (instead of the Stormpath server):

1.  Head to the [Stormpath Admin UI][stormpath-admin-login], log in, and click
    "Directories."

1.  From there, click the directory whose REST URL you have used to configure
    your application (see Quickstart Guide):

1.  Click "Workflows" and then "Show" link next to "Password Reset"

1.  Change the value of "Base URL" to
    "http://0.0.0.0:9292/password_reset_tokens"

Now the email a account receives after resetting their password will contain a link
pointing to a password reset token-verification URL on your system.

### Group Membership

In order to demonstrate the Stormpath Group functionality, the demo application
conditionally shows / hides a "delete" link next to each account on the
accounts-listing page based on the logged-in account's membership in a group named
"admin".

If you wish to experiment with group membership:

1.  Head to the [Stormpath Admin UI][stormpath-admin-login], log in, and click
    "Directories."

1.  From there, click the directory whose REST URL you have used to configure
    your application (see Quickstart Guide):

1.  Click "Groups" and then "Create Group"

1.  Name the group "admin"

1.  From the group-list screen, click the name of the "admin" group

1.  Click the "Accounts" tab and then "Assign Accounts"

1.  Select an account and then click "Assign Account"

This account has associated with the "admin" group. Upon logging in to the
sample application with this account, you will see a new "delete" link appear
next to each row in the list of accounts.

  [rubygems-installation-docs]: http://docs.rubygems.org/read/chapter/3
  [stormpath]: http://stormpath.com/
  [stormpath-admin-login]: http://api.stormpath.com/login
  [create-api-keys]: http://www.stormpath.com/docs/ruby/product-guide#AssignAPIkeys
  [stormpath-sdk]: https://github.com/stormpath/stormpath-sdk-ruby
  [concepts]: http://www.stormpath.com/docs/stormpath-basics#keyConcepts

Commit message:

Updates to README
- linking to Concepts page

- updating Rails-steps to set ENV variables before running Rake tasks

- fixing incorrect account-verification link in Rails README

- fixing incorrect password reset token-verification link in Rails README

- changing special group-name from "admin" to "foo"

- changing ENV variables used in Sinatra app to match those in Rails app

sinatra/README.md, after:

# Ruby Web App Example (Sinatra)

This is a basic web application that will show you how to create, load, edit,
and delete accounts. We've used Sinatra as the platform for building this sample
application - so getting up and running is a snap!

## Installation

These installation steps assume you've already installed RubyGems. If you've
not yet installed RubyGems, go [here][rubygems-installation-docs].

You'll need the Bundler gem in order to install dependencies listed in your
project's Gemfile. To install Bundler:

```
$ gem install bundler
```

Then, install dependencies using Bundler:

```
$ bundle install
```

## Quickstart Guide

1.  If you have not already done so, register as a developer on
    [Stormpath][stormpath] and set up your API credentials and resources:

    1.  Create a [Stormpath][stormpath] developer account and
        [create your API Keys][create-api-keys] downloading the
        <code>apiKey.properties</code> file into a <code>.stormpath</code>
        folder under your local home directory.

    1.  Through the [Stormpath Admin UI][stormpath-admin-login], create yourself
        an [Application Resource][concepts]. On the Create New Application
        screen, make sure the "Create a new directory with this application" box
        is checked. This will provision a [Directory Resource][concepts] along
        with your new Application Resource and link the Directory to the
        Application as a [Login Source][concepts]. This will allow users
        associated with that Directory Resource to authenticate and have access
        to that Application Resource.

        It is important to note that although your developer account (step 1)
        comes with a built-in Application Resource (called "Stormpath") - you
        will still need to provision a separate Application Resource.

    1.  Take note of the _REST URL_ of the Application you just created. Your
        web application will communicate with the Stormpath API in the context
        of this one Application Resource (operations such as: user-creation,
        authentication, etc.)

1.  Set ENV variables as follows (perhaps in ~/.bashrc):

    ```
    export STORMPATH_API_KEY_FILE_LOCATION=xxx
    export STORMPATH_APPLICATION_URL=aaa
    ```

    There are other ways to pass API information to the SDK client; see the
    [Stormpath SDK documentation][stormpath-sdk] for more info.

1.  Run the application with Rack (installed by Bundler):

    ```
    $ rackup config.ru
    ```

    You should see output resembling the following:

    ```
    [2013-05-03 11:38:19] INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
    [2013-05-03 11:38:19] INFO  ruby 2.0.0 (2013-02-24) [x86_64-darwin12.2.1]
    [2013-05-03 11:38:19] INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=9304 port=9292
    ```

1.  Visit the now-running site in your browser at http://0.0.0.0:9292

## Common Use Cases

### User Creation

This tutorial assumes you've not yet created any accounts in the Stormpath
directory mentioned in the Quickstart Guide.

To create your first account:

1.  Fire up the demo application, as explained in the Quickstart Guide

1.  Open http://0.0.0.0:9292 in your web browser

1.  Click the "Don't have an account?" link

1.  Complete the form and click the "Save" button

Congratulations! Your first account has been created. Assuming all has gone well,
you should be able to log in to the sample application using its email and
password.

If you're interested in the log in/out implementation, check out
routes/session.rb. In that file you'll find a route whose handler shows the
login view (GET "/session/new") and a route whose handler forwards your username
and password off to Stormpath for authentication (POST "/session").

### Listing Accounts

After creating an account ("User Creation") and logging in, you will be
presented with a list of all the accounts created to-date. These accounts have
been obtained from the Stormpath application and stored as settings of your
Sinatra app, like so:

```ruby
class SampleApp < Sinatra::Base

  ...

  set :client, Stormpath::Client.new({ :api_key_file_location => ENV['STORMPATH_RUBY_SAMPLE_API_KEY_FILE_LOCATION'] })
  set :application, settings.client.applications.get(ENV['STORMPATH_RUBY_SAMPLE_APPLICATION_URL'])

  ...

end
```

### Accessing the Stormpath Client and Application

When the Sinatra sample application starts up, a request is made to the
Stormpath API in order to load your application. The resulting
Stormpath Resource objects are accessible through the "settings" hash on your
Sinatra application, like so:

```ruby
# in routes/accounts.rb

module Sinatra
  module SampleApp
    module Routing
      module Accounts

        def self.registered(app)

          app.get '/sample_route' do

            ...

            settings.client # an instance of a Stormpath Client
            settings.application # an instance of the Stormpath Application

            ...

          end
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Testing Specific Configurations

### Post-Create Account Validation

It is possible to configure a Stormpath directory in such a way that when accounts
are provisioned to it that they must be verified (by clicking a link) via email
before logging in. The verification link in the email will by default point to
the Stormpath server - but can be configured to point to your local server. This
is useful if you wish to prevent the account from having to go to the Stormpath
site after registration.

To enable post-creation verififation for a directory:

1.  Head to the [Stormpath Admin UI][stormpath-admin-login], log in, and click
    "Directories."

1.  From there, click the directory whose REST URL you have used to configure
    your application (see Quickstart Guide):

1.  Click "Workflows" and then "Show" link next to "Account Registration and
    Verification".

1.  Click the box next to "Enable Registration and Verification
    Workflow."

1.  Finally, click the box next to "Require newly registered accounts to verify
    their email address."

Now account-creation will prompt an email to be sent to the email address attached
to that account. You will not be able to log in with that account until they've
clicked the verification link in the email-body.

If you wish for that email link to point to your local server - which will then
use the Stormpath SDK to verify the account - modify "Account Verification Base
URL" to "http://0.0.0.0:9292/account_verifications".

### Local Password Reset Token Validation

It is possible to configure a Stormpath directory in such a way that when accounts
reset their password that the email they receive points to a token-verification
URL on your local server. If you wish to configure the directory to point to
your local server (instead of the Stormpath server):

1.  Head to the [Stormpath Admin UI][stormpath-admin-login], log in, and click
    "Directories."

1.  From there, click the directory whose REST URL you have used to configure
    your application (see Quickstart Guide):

1.  Click "Workflows" and then "Show" link next to "Password Reset"

1.  Change the value of "Base URL" to
    "http://0.0.0.0:9292/password_reset_tokens"

Now the email a account receives after resetting their password will contain a link
pointing to a password reset token-verification URL on your system.

### Group Membership

In order to demonstrate the Stormpath Group functionality, the demo application
conditionally shows / hides a "delete" link next to each account on the
accounts-listing page based on the logged-in account's membership in a group named
"admin".

If you wish to experiment with group membership:

1.  Head to the [Stormpath Admin UI][stormpath-admin-login], log in, and click
    "Directories."

1.  From there, click the directory whose REST URL you have used to configure
    your application (see Quickstart Guide):

1.  Click "Groups" and then "Create Group"

1.  Name the group "admin"

1.  From the group-list screen, click the name of the "admin" group

1.  Click the "Accounts" tab and then "Assign Accounts"

1.  Select an account and then click "Assign Account"

This account has associated with the "admin" group. Upon logging in to the
sample application with this account, you will see a new "delete" link appear
next to each row in the list of accounts.

  [rubygems-installation-docs]: http://docs.rubygems.org/read/chapter/3
  [stormpath]: http://stormpath.com/
  [stormpath-admin-login]: http://api.stormpath.com/login
  [create-api-keys]: http://www.stormpath.com/docs/ruby/product-guide#AssignAPIkeys
  [stormpath-sdk]: https://github.com/stormpath/stormpath-sdk-ruby
  [concepts]: http://www.stormpath.com/docs/stormpath-basics#keyConcepts
